Sarah Jenkins (Project Manager): Okay, everyone, it's 10 AM, let's get started. Thanks for joining the Q3 sales forecast review.
Sarah Jenkins (Project Manager): The goal today is for the data science team to walk us through the new quarterly forecast. Then, we can discuss the business implications. Anya, the floor is yours.
Dr. Anya Sharma (Lead Data Scientist): Thanks, Sarah. Good morning, everyone. I'm sharing my screen now... can you all see the main dashboard?
David Chen (VP of Sales): Yep, looks good.
Dr. Anya Sharma (Lead Data Scientist): Great. So, for this quarter's forecast, we've continued to use our SARIMAX model, which accounts for seasonality and external factors.
Dr. Anya Sharma (Lead Data Scientist): As you can see from the main chart, we're projecting a modest 2.5% overall growth for Q3 compared to last year, with a forecasted revenue of $58.2 million.
Dr. Anya Sharma (Lead Data Scientist): The shaded blue area represents our 95% confidence interval. Now, if we break this down by product category, you'll notice something interesting in our 'Innovate' product line...
Dr. Anya Sharma (Lead Data Scientist): We're forecasting a slight dip of around 4% in July before a recovery in late August. We believe this is driven by post-launch saturation and some recent competitor announcements.
David Chen (VP of Sales): Hold on, Anya. A 4% dip in 'Innovate'? I have to say, that doesn't track with what my team is seeing on the ground.
David Chen (VP of Sales): Our pipeline for July is the strongest it's been all year. We have two major enterprise deals that are about to close. Why is the model so pessimistic?
Dr. Anya Sharma (Lead Data Scientist): That's a fair question, David. The model is built on historical patterns and macro trends. It can't see specific deals in your pipeline unless we manually input them.
Ben Carter (Data Scientist): Exactly. What the model is capturing is a broader market softening and the typical second-month-of-the-quarter seasonal dip that we've seen for the past three years.
David Chen (VP of Sales): I see.
Maria Rossi (Finance Director): Can we talk about accuracy? Anya, what was the Mean Absolute Percentage Error, the MAPE, on this forecast?
Dr. Anya Sharma (Lead Data Scientist): Across all product lines, the back-tested MAPE for Q2 was 12.4%. For this Q3 forward-looking forecast, we're projecting a similar range, around 13%.
Maria Rossi (Finance Director): Thirteen percent... That means our actual revenue could be off by over $7 million. That's a huge variance when we're setting budgets and talking to investors.
Ben Carter (Data Scientist): I understand the concern, Maria. Given the current market volatility, a 13% MAPE is actually quite strong. Last year, our legacy spreadsheet-based forecasting had an error rate closer to 25%.
Ben Carter (Data Scientist): The model provides a baseline. The value comes from us then layering on our collective business intelligence, like the deals David just mentioned.
Maria Rossi (Finance Director): Okay. I'll need to see the best and worst-case scenarios based on that confidence interval.
Kevin Jones (Supply Chain Manager): My concern is more granular. Anya, can you pull up the forecast for SKU 75B-Alpha? I'm looking at your data pack and it shows a 40% spike in demand for August.
Dr. Anya Sharma (Lead Data Scientist): One moment, Kevin. Yes, pulling it up now.
Kevin Jones (Supply Chain Manager): Right, see that? A 40% jump is massive. Our lead time from the supplier is six weeks. If I place an order to cover that, and it doesn't materialize, I'm sitting on a mountain of expensive inventory.
Kevin Jones (Supply Chain Manager): What on earth is driving that specific prediction?
Ben Carter (Data Scientist): Great question. For that SKU, two main features are driving the spike. First, the 'Back to School' marketing campaign that's scheduled to go live in mid-July. We've seen that campaign cause a similar uplift for the past two years.
Ben Carter (Data Scientist): Second, one of our main competitors for that product just announced a price increase that takes effect August 1st. The model is predicting we'll capture some of their price-sensitive customers.
Kevin Jones (Supply Chain Manager): Okay, that makes sense. But a 40% jump still feels high. The marketing campaign is digital-only this year, less spend than before.
Dr. Anya Sharma (Lead Data Scientist): That's a critical piece of information, Kevin. This is where the model needs your expertise. We can adjust the 'weight' of the marketing variable and re-run the forecast for that SKU.
Dr. Anya Sharma (Lead Data Scientist): Perhaps we could model a 10% and 20% lift instead of the 35% it learned from previous, larger campaigns. That would give you a range for inventory planning.
Kevin Jones (Supply Chain Manager): Yes, that would be much more helpful. Thank you.
David Chen (VP of Sales): Following on that, could we do something similar for regions? My West coast team is outperforming the model, but the East coast is lagging. A single national number isn't very actionable for me.
Dr. Anya Sharma (Lead Data Scientist): We can definitely explore regional models. The challenge is data sparsity; some regions have less historical data, which can reduce model accuracy.
Ben Carter (Data Scientist): But we could start with your top three regions, David. If your team can provide some structured data on pipeline strength or regional promotions, we can add those as regressors.
David Chen (VP of Sales): Perfect. My team can get that to you by end of week.
Sarah Jenkins (Project Manager): This is a great discussion. It seems like the path forward is to use the model as a strong baseline and then refine it with specific, on-the-ground intelligence from each department.
Maria Rossi (Finance Director): Exactly. Anya, Ben, can you commit to providing those scenario-based reports for Finance? I'll need the upper and lower confidence bounds translated into revenue dollars.
Dr. Anya Sharma (Lead Data Scientist): Yes, absolutely. We can have that for you by tomorrow.
Kevin Jones (Supply Chain Manager): And on my end, can we get a weekly refresh of the forecast for, say, our top 20 SKUs? Things change so fast that a quarterly forecast feels static.
Ben Carter (Data Scientist): The pipeline is automated, so a weekly refresh is definitely feasible. We can set up an automated report for you and Kevin's team.
Sarah Jenkins (Project Manager): Excellent. Okay, let's summarize the action items. One: Ben and Anya to incorporate regional data from David's team for a revised model.
Sarah Jenkins (Project Manager): Two: The DS team will provide Maria with best-case and worst-case revenue scenarios based on the confidence intervals by tomorrow.
Sarah Jenkins (Project Manager): Three: Ben will work with Kevin to run simulations on SKU 75B-Alpha with adjusted marketing data and set up weekly reports for top SKUs.
Sarah Jenkins (Project Manager): We'll schedule a follow-up in two weeks to review the refined regional models. Does that sound right to everyone?
David Chen (VP of Sales): Sounds good.
Maria Rossi (Finance Director): Works for me.
Sarah Jenkins (Project Manager): Great. Thanks everyone for a very productive session. We'll get these actions moving. Have a good day.